# M340-Project

Climate change means that it will become more difficult to sustain our population at the current rate. Therefore scientists and environmentalists have been advocating to try and reverse the effects of climate change or at the very least, reduce the rate at which change is occurring. One of the ways to reduce the effects of climate change is to reduce the amount of carbon that is being produced overall. One method of doing that is called “carbon neutrality”. Carbon neutrality is when the amount of carbon that is being released into the earth atmosphere is also the amount that a company/organization is removing from the atmosphere so that their net amount of carbon emission is zero. Even better than that is “carbon positivity,” this is when the net amount of carbon emissions a company/organization is producing is less than zero. Companies and organizations are being incentivized to reduce their emissions through the enactment of certain carbon laws. The provincial government of British Columbia has implemented a provincial tax which states that companies and organizations will have to pay between $40 to $45 per ton of carbon dioxide that they produce. This number will only increase as time goes on. For the University of British Columbia (UBC) alone, this will mean that financial costs to run the university could increase by over $5,000,000 by 2040 (“UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030.”). Therefore it is imperative that action to reduce carbon should be taken.
UBC declared a climate emergency in December 2019 (“UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030.”). As a result they created the “Climate Action Plan 2030” (CAP 2030) that will help to reduce carbon emission (“UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030.”). UBC is hoping that CAP 2030 will allow UBC to “accelerate the pathway to becoming net zero through clean energy solutions and energy- efficient technologies, as well as identifying new ways to reduce emissions in areas that every university community member has influence over, including commuting, food, waste, and business air travel.” (“UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030.”) In other words, CAP 2030 will allow UBC to optimize (in this case minimizing) the amount of carbon that they are producing through aspects that everyone on campus can contribute to, not just operations. Therefore they have identified five areas in which they can help reduce emissions. The first is to reduce emission from existing building which is currently where most of the emissions come from. Second is to figure out how new building will get energy and deal with their emissions. Third is the behavioral change of people on campus to reduce emissions. Fourth is to deal
 with how energy is supplied to campus. And finally the fifth area is reducing emission from vehicles such as departmental vehicles and operational vehicles.
The aim of this project is to show UBC can minimize their carbon emissions in the form of a linear problem. When looking at this problem as a linear problem, we will only consider the fifth category of UBC’s fleet size and reducing emission from vehicles. Although, the vehicles are the smallest component of the total emissions produced in campus, I have chosen this aspect because the vehicles are visible and can be used as a constant reminder to all that reducing our personal carbon footprint is important
In the fleet there are three types of vehicles. The light duty vehicles (l), the light duty trucks (m) and heavy duty vehicles (h). In each type there are different types of fuels, these include electric vehicle (EV), “Plug in” electric vehicle (PHEV), hybrid vehicles (HEV), hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (HFCV), natural gas/propane (NGP), and gas/diesel (GD) Therefore we find that the number of vehicles is as follows. Since some fuel types are not available for certain vehicle types (e.g. electric is not available for trucks) I will put the fuel types into three different categories; electric (e) which includes EV, PHEV, and HEV, hydrogen fuel cell (f) which includes HFCV, and gas (g) which includes NGP and GD.
le +lf +lg +mf +mg +hf +hg
Now the gas vehicles have to be replaced so emissions can be reduced by 20% with the following 3 conditions
1. The new fleet size cannot be larger than the old fleet size
2. There is only a certain amount of money allocated each year to replace the cars
3. The cost of running the fleet cannot go up
Our objective function is to minimize the emissions that the fleet produces by replacing the cars.

Works Cited
“UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030.” UBC Vancouver Climate Action Plan 2030 | UBC Campus & Community Planning, 20 July 2021, https://planning.ubc.ca/ubc-vancouver- climate-action-plan-2030.
